                    EMPIRE II (C)1990 - The "Wag" Version

Welcome to Empire II! This is Dirty Laundry's very own rendition of the famous
online game Empire. In my opinion, this is one of the most professional and
challenging versions I have ever played! Guaranteed to give even the most
experienced player a run for their money! Both new players and veterans will
want to read through these new docs completely. Covered are all aspects of the
basic game-play and all new or changed rules.

The OBJECT of Empire II is to build your Empire while destroying your
opponents. Once you reach a certain level you will be declared KING.

Only 30 Players will be allowed to play at one time. All positions are
available on a first come, first serve basis. The number of turns you receive
each day will depend on the number of players in the game:

 1-10 players get 3 turns per day
11-20 players get 4 turns per day
21-30 players get 5 turns per day.

All NEW players will start with:

 5000 Acres
 2000 Serfs (approx.)
    3 Nobles
   40 Soldiers
20000 Bushels of Grain
    2 Foundries
10000 Gold
   50 Horses (approx.)

(Remember, entering a 'Y' at most any prompt will give you a listing of your
current stats.)

Each player will also have 1 island. Your island must be stocked, developed
and maintained during your rein.

To win at Empire II, you must build your stats up to the following levels:

  30,000 Acres
   9,000 Serfs (mainland) 5,000 Serfs (island)
 250,000 Gold
     200 Nobles
    100% Palace
     200 Markets
     200 Mills
      50 Shipyards
      50 Forts

(Any player with a point rating of 150 or higher will automatically become to
new KING! Point ratings are based on your current assets.)

Once attained, you will become the new KING! All kings receive a lump amount
of d/l credits (based on acres owned at the time) and will also receive 20
credits per day for every day you REMAIN king! You must enter Empire II to
collect these credits. However, they will accumulate and do not need to be
collected on a daily basis.

Good Luck! I know you're going to enjoy playing this new version. Now that you
know all about the start and finish of the game, let's take a stroll through a
complete turn and examine each of the games various options and components:

-THE MAIN PROMPT-

Upon entering EMPIRE II, the first place you'll stop is at the MAIN PROMPT.
You may enter the game up to this prompt WITHOUT using any turns (even if you
have NO plays left!). Pressing 'Q' will take you back to the BBS leaving all
stats as they were (including number of plays remaining). The following
options are available at this prompt:

NEWS - 'N' will show a record of the past 2 days' activities. Among the items
recorded here are wins, loses, ransacks, kills, ships lost and islands
plundered.

LIST OF EMPERORS - 'L' will show you a current list of all the other players,
the amount of land they have and their point rating.

YOUR STATS - 'Y' will produce a list of your game stats. You can use this
command at almost ANY prompt throughout the game. Refer to it often!

QUIT - 'Q' will exit you back out to the BBS. Along that same line, using
'CTRL-P' from anywhere in the game will return you to the BBS. Your current
stats will be saved at the same time!

CONTINUE - 'C' takes you into the game!

After selecting 'C', you will see your production for this turn. Production is
determined by the amount of LAND, SERFS, MILLS, etc. you have in your Empire.

-BUYING/SELLING LAND-

The next prompt will give you an opportunity to buy or sell land. Prices will
vary from turn to turn. If it's not an emergency, you may want to wait and
look for a better price on your next turn.

WARNING: You must maintain a minimum LAND:SERF ratio of 7:1. That means you
must have at least 1 serf for every 7 acres. Do not buy more land than your
serfs can handle. You will lose your Empire if this should happen!

-BUYING/SELLING GRAIN-

At this time you may buy or sell grain. Again, prices here will vary from turn
to turn. Now is the time to be SURE you have the grain to support your Empire
for this turn! Press 'Y' to check your stats!

-FEEDING YOUR SERFS-

At this prompt you will supply your serfs with food. The figure shown is based
on 5 bushels per serf. This is only the RECOMMENDED amount. (Pressing RETURN
will automatically supply the recommended amount without you having to enter
the digits). TIP: The experienced Emperor knows that there is a definite
strategy to overfeeding and underfeeding your serfs. If your population has
grown overly large, underfeeding will help kill off some of your serfs. Use
caution! Extreme or repeated underfeeding will cause the masses to plunder
your Empire! It's better to do a little over several turns rather than one BIG
famine. On the other hand, overfeeding will usually helps insure an increase
your population.

-FEEDING YOUR ARMIES-

Be sure to save enough grain to feed your armies. They will REQUIRE 8 bushels
per soldier. Should you be unable to feed them the required amount, they will
be 'on strike' for the remainder of that turn. You may also lose some to the
rebel forces when underfeeding armies!

-STATUS REPORT-

After feeding the masses, a status chart will show any changes in your serfs
population and the new TOTAL. You will also be informed of any tax money
earned for that turn. If you have developed any forts on your island, at this
time you must pay your island taxes. This is collected automatically. If you
do not have the full amount you will lose 1 fort.

-THE INVESTMENT PROMPT-

At this stage you must replenish your Empire. There are 9 items available
here. They are:

1 - SOLDIERS: $10 each. You may purchase up to 20 men for every noble and/or
40 men for every foundry. Soldiers are your main line of defense and offense.
Naturally, the more you have, the more powerful your Empire will be.

2 - MARKETS: $1000 each. Markets are a low-return investment. However, they
help stimulate the economy and the population.

3- MILLS: $2000 each. Mills are a low-return investment also. Mills directly
effect the results of each years harvests. Likewise, large harvests tend to
cause the mills to pay better dividends.

4 - PALACE: $10,000 per unit. 10 units max. The palace does not pay dividends.
However, with each investment in the palace you will also receive 1 noble. The
palace also adds to your defenses.

5 - FOUNDRIES: $7000 each. Foundries are necessary for you to increase the
size of your army. For each foundry you may purchase up to 40 soldiers
(provided you have the required number of nobles). In addition, foundries will
also pay dividends each turn!

6 - SHIPYARDS: $8000 each. Shipyards are a high-return investment. They are
also needed to increase the size of your fleet (ships).

7- NOBLES: $25000 each. Nobles are needed to increase the size of your army.
You may have up to 20 soldiers per noble.

8 - SHIPS: $5000 each. Ships are needed to transport people and goods to and
from your island. When buying ships, your total cannot exceed a 1:1
ship:shipyard ratio.

9 - STABLES: $10000 each. You can put up to 40 horses in each stable you own.
Horses not kept in a stable are subject to get stolen by rebel forces. Stables
will also return a profit at the end of each turn.

Once all purchases are completed, (check your stats!), select '0'. Now you
may...

(S)ail To Your Island, (V)isit The Dry Dock, Or (G)o To The Battlefields

Pressing 'G' will take you directly to the attack prompt, bypassing both the
dry dock and sailing options entirely.

'V' will send you to the dry dock without you having to sail to your island
first (as in the previous versions). This gives you a chance to sell any
exports you may have stored there. Once all transactions are complete, or if
you have no exports, you will be sent to the attack prompt.

'S'ailing, the final option, is an important aspect of your Empire. Your
island is capable of producing a lot of money for you, but it also must be
properly managed and fortified! This must be accomplished over a period of
time. Selecting 'S' will take you to...

-THE LOADING DOCKS-

This is where you will load your ship(s) for the journey. There are two
separate loading docks, one on your mainland and one on your island. There are
SOME differences between them in regards to what can be loaded and where. For
example, at the mainland loading docks you may load GRAIN, SERFS, NOBLES (and
soldiers), NAVIGATORS and SPICES. At the island loading docks, NOBLES and
NAVIGATORS are loaded automatically and SOLDIERS must be loaded separately.
You may also take GRAIN, SERFS, HORSES and EXPORTS.

Each item loaded into your ship(s) will take up a certain amount of space.
When selecting an item to load, you will see the amount you have on board and
the max you will be allowed to load (determined by the amount of room left on
board, the amount you own, or cash you have -- Whichever applies). Once
loaded, an item may NOT be removed. You may take as much or as little (or
none) of any of the items as you like. Your ships can not exceed 100%
capacity.

- GRAIN - Your ship(s) will carry up to 1000 bushels each. While on your
island, you'll need to feed your serfs, armies and horses. You'll want to
bring grain with you should you island not already have enough grain to
support your people/animals. Likewise, if you have an abundance of grain on
your island, you may bring it to the mainland to sell or feed to the mainland
serfs.

- SERFS - You may load up to 100 serfs per ship. Be careful not to remove too
many from the mainland (watch that land:serf ratio!).

- NOBLES - (Mainland) You may load up to 5 nobles per ship. Each noble will
automatically bring along 20 soldiers. You will want the nobles along to
protect your ships from the pirates roaming the open sea or should you run
across an enemy island. (Island) Nobles are loaded automatically. However, you
do have the option to load soldiers here. You may load up to 20 soldiers per
noble. Be sure to leave enough behind to protect your island!

- NAVIGATORS - You may load up to 100 navigators per ship. These guys will
lead your ships safely to and from your island. Without them, ships blown
off-course may become lost forever! For their services, navigators require a
fee of $2000 apiece. A wise captain will have one on each ship.

- SPICES - You may load up to 100 ton/spices per ship. Spices may only be
bought at the mainland loading dock. Each ton costs $1000. Spices are used on
the island to trade for EXPORTS (which may be returned to the mainland and
sold for profit) or TIMBER which may be used to build FORTS and SHIPS on your
island.

- HORSES -  You may load up to 100 horses per ship. Horses may only be loaded
at the ISLAND loading dock.

- EXPORTS - You may load up to 20 exports per ship. Exports may only be loaded
at the ISLAND loading dock.

-BEGIN YOUR VOYAGE-

As you can imagine, sailing the open sea is, at best, a dangerous proposition.
You'll encounter many natural obstacles for which you have no defenses.
Hurricanes and raging storms are abundant, not to mention pirates! You also
may encounter an...



-ENEMY ISLAND-

In this situation you will have 2 options:

(A)ttack the island or (C)ontinue your voyage

Choosing 'C' will cause your navigators to change course and sail you safely
past the enemy and on to your destination...

There are several things you'll want to consider before choosing to 'A'ttack
the island. First, unless you've attacked the island before, you will not know
how strong the opponent may be. Nobles, ships and soldiers will determine your
strength. Forts, cannons and soldiers (on the island only) will determine the
enemy's strength (an island with no forts developed cannot be attacked). If
you defeat your opponent, you will destroy his fort and all possessions
contained in that fort will be seized by you. This includes any serfs, grain,
cannons, horses, timber, exports, spices and gold. If you lose, the amount of
damage incurred will depend on how badly the fort trashes your ship(s).
Rarely, though, will you lose the entire expedition.

Surviving any battles or natural disasters (consider yourself successful if
losses were kept to a minimum!), you will eventually arrive...

-AT YOUR ISLAND-

Upon your arrival you will be at the...

-TRADING PROMPT-

(Remember, pressing 'Y' at most any prompt will display your current stats).
Here you may trade your spices for exports or timber. Each export costs 3
spices. Each timber cost 2 spices. All unused spices, timber and exports (that
are left on your island) will be saved and available for use when you return
to the island.

-BUILDING FORT AND SHIPS-

5 tons of timber will build 1 fort. With each fort you build, you will also
get 3 cannons. These will help protect your island from enemy attacks. TIP:
Your forts hold all your island's possessions (equally). Once you start
building them, it's recommended to build a number of them as quickly as
possible. This will help to diversify your goods in the event that your
island gets plundered!

3 tons of timber will build 1 ship. The main advantage to building ships here
(rather than buying them on the mainland) is that you are not restricted by
the number of shipyards you own.

-FEEDING YOUR SERFS, ARMIES AND HORSES-

Feeding your population here is very much like it is on the mainland, although
there are several exceptions; Your serf population cannot be influenced by the
amount of grain you give them. There is no benefit to overfeeding.
Underfeeding may result in severe losses to your island! Underfeeding your
armies will result in the loss of some or all of your soldiers! Overfeeding
provides no additional benefits. Same for horses (except underfeeding will
lose a random amount. Handy should your horse population grow too large).

Once you are done dispersing your grain, your stats will be displayed and your
ships loaded for the return trip.

-DRY DOCK-

If you make it home with any exports, or should you have exports stored in dry
dock, you will have the following options:

BARTER, SELL & HOLD:

(B)artering is risky. You never know when the Market Master will turn and walk
away! If he offers a price you like (anything over $7000 is considered good),
then you'll want to select (S)ell. You may sell any or all of your exports.
Any exports not sold, or should you select the (H)old option. Any remaining
exports will be held in dry dock until your next turn. There is a $100 per ton
fee for this service.

-THE ATTACK PROMPT-

At this prompt, you can select to attack any of the other players, provided
you haven't attacked them on a previous turn. Simply enter the number of the
player you have in mind, or a '?' to see the current list. You also may press
'N' here to view the NEWS file. It may be at this prompt where that info will
be most valuable to you! Enter a '0' if you do not wish to attack anybody.

-REBEL FORCES-

Once your opponent has be selected and verified, you may have the option to
recruit rebel forces. Rebels are soldiers that have turned against an Emperor!
Each player may or may not have rebels. When recruiting rebels, they are taken
FROM your opponent and added directly to your armies.

-THE BATTLE COMMAND PROMPT-

Your options here are:

1 - ATTACK ARMIES: This is the name of the game! Once selected, your remaining
men will clash head-on with your opponent's army in a battle to the death!
Regardless of the outcome, you will manage to pick up a chunk of land. Of
course, defeating your opponent will result in a LARGER portion than if you
had lost. The actual amount will depend on the size of each players army and
the intensity of the battle. Attacking an opponent that is considerably weaker
than yourself may surprise you. You'll stand a good chance of getting ambushed
under these conditions! Likewise, if you are attacked by a much stronger
player, you will ambush a number of their armies. Once the battle is complete,
you will be sent to the 'end-of-turn' options. You may only select the "attack
armies" option once per turn. Should you manage to take ALL of your opponent's
land, you will, in effect, KILL that player and seize any possessions left in
their Empire. This includes serfs, grain, gold, nobles, etc. These will all
become part of your Empire, like it or not! This is also where your horses
come into play! A soldier on a horse has a distinct advantage over a foot
soldier. If you have any horses (on your mainland) your men will automatically
ride them into battle. You can only take as many horses into battle as you
have men. A horse is of no use without a man to ride it!

2 - ATTACK THE PALACE: With this option you may attempt to destroy a portion
of your opponent's palace. If he has none, you will be returned to the Battle
Command prompt. Should you manage to destroy a part of the palace, in most
cases you will find some portion of your opponent's gold also (where else would
you keep it?). This, naturally, will be seized by you and added to your stats.
You may attempt to attack your opponent's palace as many times as you wish.
Your only limit is the size of your army. You will suffer loses each time,
regardless of the outcome.

3 - ATTACK A NOBLE: This option will let you attempt to ambush one of your
opponent's nobles. As with the palace, your armies will suffer losses,
regardless of whether they are successful or not. You may use this option
until you deplete your armies or your opponent runs out of nobles. An
excessive land:noble ratio may cause your armies to refuse! All nobles
ambushed will be added to your Empire. This is the only way to effectively
reduce the size of an opponent's army!

4 - SUPPLY REBEL TROOPS: Here you may sell your armies to the rebels. These
men will be added to your opponent's rebel forces. This allows several players
to "gang up" on a larger player. Rebels will pay $15 per man.

5 - NO ATTACK: This will allow you to leave the Battle Command prompt WITHOUT
having to attack your opponent's armies.

-COMPLETING YOUR TURN-

Once you have completed the battle segment of your turn, the results (if any)
will be printed to the news file for all to see. Next you will be shown this
year's profits for all investments that you may own. This money is immediately
added to your Empire.

Next you will see a current list of all your stats and you will be given the
opportunity to replenish your troops. The price of these soldiers will vary
from turn to turn. TIP: Normally, the only time you will want to purchase
soldiers here is when you are leaving the game (to protect your Empire while
you are gone). If you intend to play another turn, then buy them at the
investment prompt when you get back around. They are usually cheaper and this
saves you from having to feed them extra grain! If you are leaving the game,
then you will need to buy them at whatever price they are offered (provided
you have the gold to pay for them!)

Provided you have at least 1 play remaining, you will now return to the
beginning of the game. You may play all your turns during one call or split
them up any way you like. If you have no plays left, you will have a chance to
leave a message to the next player. This could be any tips, info, threats or
promises you may wish to pass on. Pressing RETURN here will leave the message
unchanged. 

                     Empire II (C) Written By Steve Wagy
                            The Dirty Laundry BBS
                      912-953-2998 - 2400/1200 - 24 Hrs
                             Centerville, Georgia
                      Member of the Color 64 BBS Network

				Quests converted to Image BBS by Pinacolada 